---
layout: post
title: "eWhisper"
tagline: "encrypted private messaging"
description: ""
category: programming
tags: [encryption, private messaging]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

A spin-off of Scattershot, this project aims to blend encryption with the sort of quick and easy private messaging you find on message boards across the internet. By ignoring many of the more complex features that Scattershot is intended to provide, the design can be streamlined into something much easier to quickly develop, and the small surface area of the app lends itself to quick code review, ensuring that people get the privacy that they expect.

### Design Requirements

**The server has no knowledge of the stored text, nor does it have the ability to decrypt it.**  
By only storing the public keys, and leaving users responsible for keeping their private keys safe, you can be relatively sure that a user's data will be safe in the event of a breach.

Disposable keypairs can be generated locally, and only the public key needs to be sent to the server. When you prepare to send a message to another user, you get the stored public key of the user in question, and use that to encrypt the message.

* Accounts should be quick and easy to generate, and require no personal information.  
This isn't really a big issue, since it's easy to not ask for and store personal information. However, it means that if a user loses their password, that's their problem.

### Table Layout

	USERS ------------------|
	| id | name | publickey |
	|----|------|-----------|

	MESSAGES -----------------------------|
	| senderid | recipientid | ciphertext |
	|----------|-------------|------------|